
Copied from https://www.c64-wiki.com/wiki/Serial_Port

### Signal description:

Attention: a lot of fast loaders use these signals differently! The here described pin assignment is valid only for the standard usage of the bus.
All signals (except from GND) are LOW-active. If they are inactive they are on a voltage level of about 5V (HIGH).
Electrically, all signals are open collector, to keep the bus behaviour.

SRQ: Serial Service Request in

Any device can draw this signal to LOW, to request data exchange with the computer. The C64 does not use this signal, but it is connected with the read line of the cassette port (although this can only detect signal edges, but not signal levels).
The C128 uses this line as "Fast Serial Clock" for the 1571/1581 disk drive.

ATN: Serial Attention out

If this signal is LOW and a byte is sent, all connected devices on the bus are interpreting this as a command. As soon as the C64 draws ATN to LOW, all other devices are waiting for the transmission of the address (device number). The addressed device has to answer within a defined time frame, else the C64 assumes, that this device is not present and gives an error message. After the device number the secondary address will be sent, ATN stays LOW. Before the first "normal" byte it will go back to HIGH state.

CLK: Serial Clock in/out

This signal is the clock of the transmitted data. The clock will be generated by the device which sends the data. At the rising edge of CLK, the receiver takes over the actual DATA bit.

DATA: Serial Data in/out

The data will be transferred via this line sequentially bit by bit. A byte transmission starts with bit 0 LSB and ends with bit 7 MSB for the standard protocol, or the reverse for the fast protocol.

RESET: Serial Reset

This generates a reset at the connected devices. Early models of the C64 allowed to use it as input to reset the computer (Reset-button), at later models this is not possible any more. Therefore a reset-button switch should be connected to the user port.
